docs(flutter_weather): update tutorial (#2519)
felangel/bloc: docs/flutterweathertutorial.md

![advanced](https://img.shields.io/badge/level-advanced-red.svg)

## Tutorial Goals

> > The goal of this tutorial is to demonstrate best practices for design and testing when using the Bloc Library for a complex app. Specifically, we will use Hydrated Cubits to make a weather app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The goal of this tutorial is to demonstrate best practices for design and testing when using the bloc library to build a functional weather app. We will create a layered architecture, use `HydratedCubit`, and write unit and widget tests along the way.
```

![demo](./assets/gifs/flutter_weather.gif)

### Project Requirements:
- User can search for US cities on the search page
- App displays weather information returned by [MetaWeather API](https://www.metaweather.com/api/)
- App theme changes depending on weather of the city (Dynamic Theming)
- Settings page which allows for unit conversions

> - Persist state across sessions (Hydrated Cubits)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Persist state across sessions (HydratedCubit)
```

## Key Concepts
- Observe state changes with [BlocObserver](/coreconcepts?id=blocobserver).
- [BlocProvider](/flutterbloccoreconcepts?id=blocprovider), Flutter widget which provides a bloc to its children.
- [BlocBuilder](/flutterbloccoreconcepts?id=blocbuilder), Flutter widget that handles building the widget in response to new states.
- Prevent unnecessary rebuilds with [Equatable](/faqs?id=when-to-use-equatable).
- [RepositoryProvider](/flutterbloccoreconcepts?id=repositoryprovider), a Flutter widget which provides a repository to its children.
- [BlocListener](/flutterbloccoreconcepts?id=bloclistener), a Flutter widget which invokes the listener code in response to state changes in the bloc.
- [MultiBlocProvider](/flutterbloccoreconcepts?id=multiblocprovider), a Flutter widget that merges multiple BlocProvider widgets into one.
- [BlocConsumer](/flutterbloccoreconcepts?id=blocconsumer), exposes a builder and listener in order to react to new states.

> - [Hydrated Cubits](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/tree/master/packages/hydrated_bloc) to manage and mutate state, in response to user interactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [HydratedCubit](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/tree/master/packages/hydrated_bloc) to manage and mutate state, in response to user interactions
```

> - [Hydrated Cubits](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/tree/master/packages/hydrated_bloc) to manage and mutate state, in response to user interactions
> - [Hydrated Storage](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/tree/master/packages/hydrated_bloc) to persist state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [HydratedBloc](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/tree/master/packages/hydrated_bloc) to manage and persist state
```

- [BlocConsumer](/flutterbloccoreconcepts?id=blocconsumer), exposes a builder and listener in order to react to new states.
- [Hydrated Cubits](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/tree/master/packages/hydrated_bloc) to manage and mutate state, in response to user interactions
- [Hydrated Storage](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/tree/master/packages/hydrated_bloc) to persist state

## Setup

We’ll start off by creating a brand new Flutter project

[script](_snippets/flutter_weather_tutorial/flutter_create.sh.md ':include')
## Setup/Project Structure

We can then go ahead and replace the contents of pubspec.yaml with
To begin, create a new flutter project
```bash
flutter create flutter_weather
```

[pubspec.yaml](_snippets/flutter_weather_tutorial/pubspec.yaml.md ':include')
### Project Structure: Feature Driven
> Each package (directory) within our app contains an isolated feature. This allows for scalability as the number of features increases and also allows for developers to work on isolated parts of the codebase. 

> ?> **Note:** We are going to add some assets (icons for weather types) in our app, so we need to include the assets folder in the pubspec.yaml. Please go ahead and create an _assets_ folder in the root of the project.

Reviewer 2: Can we add this note back in?

```

### Architecture Layers
> Following the [bloc architecture](https://bloclibrary.dev/#/architecture) guidelines, each feature will be implemented in layers. 

> - Data Layer: retrieving weather data from API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Data Layer: retrieve weather data from API
```

> - Repository: wrapping the data layer and compiling the data into a useful state for our application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: abstracting the data layer and exposing domain models for our application to consume
```

> - Data Layer: retrieving weather data from API
> - Repository: wrapping the data layer and compiling the data into a useful state for our application

Reviewer 2: Let's update the verb tense to be consistent with the other bullet points here

```suggestion
- Data Layer: retrieve weather data from API
- Repository: wrap the data layer and compiling the data into a useful state for our application
```

- `/api/location/search/?query=$city` to get a locationId for a given city name
- `/api/location/$locationId` to get the weather for a given locationId

Open [https://www.metaweather.com/api/location/search/?query=london](https://www.metaweather.com/api/location/search/?query=london) in your browser and you'll see the following response

[london_search.json](_snippets/flutter_weather_tutorial/location_search.json.md ':include')

We can then get the where-on-earth-id (woeid) and use it to hit the location api.

Navigate to [https://www.metaweather.com/api/location/44418](https://www.metaweather.com/api/location/44418) in your browser and you'll see the response for weather in London. It should look something like this:

[london.json](_snippets/flutter_weather_tutorial/location.json.md ':include')

Great, now that we know what our data is going to look like, let’s create the necessary data models.

> ## Creating Our Weather Data Model

Reviewer 2: Can we keep the spirit of these subheadings within the new tutorial? Let's break up the text into more bite-sized steps.

> > Since our API client interacting MetaWeather should be independent of the rest of our app, we can create it as a subpackage. We can then import our package in our `pubspec.yaml`

Reviewer 2: Can we provide a reason for this? Is it readability or a best practice? Maybe something like: 

We want to keep our API client independent of the rest of the app [for x reason(s)]... We can create it as a subpackage and then import it in our `pubspec.yaml`

> Create a new directory on the project level called `packages`. This directory will store all of our custom made subpackages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new directory on the project level called `packages`. This directory will store all of our internal packages.
```

> Within this directory, run the built in flutter create command to create a new subpackage called `meta_weather_api` for our api client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within this directory, run the built-in `flutter create` command to create a new package called `meta_weather_api` for our api client
```

> Within this directory, run the built in flutter create command to create a new subpackage called `meta_weather_api` for our api client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Within this directory, run the built-in flutter create command to create a new subpackage called `meta_weather_api` for our api client
```

}

class LatLng {
    const LatLng({required this.latitude, required this.longitude});

    final double latitude;
    final double longitude;
}

```

> Next, let's work out of `weather.dart`. Our weather model should store data returned by the weather API, which looks like the following:

```json
{
    "id": 5037922198749184,
    "weather_state_name": "Heavy Cloud",
    "weather_state_abbr": "hc",
    "wind_direction_compass": "SSE",
    "created": "2021-05-28T15:32:01.902125Z",
    "applicable_date": "2021-05-28",
    "min_temp": 9.61,
    "max_temp": 19.375,
    "the_temp": 18.54,
    "wind_speed": 3.0192401717198227,
    "wind_direction": 148.63313166521016,
    "air_pressure": 1023.0,
    "humidity": 57,
    "visibility": 10.56983466555317,
    "predictability": 71
}
```

> Here's the **in-progress** `weather.dart` file which stores the above response:

```dart
// packages/meta_weather_api/lib/src/models/weather.dart (in progress)

enum WeatherState {
    snow, sleet, hail, thunderstorm, heavyRain, lightRain, showers, heavyCloud, lightCloud, clear, unknown
}

enum WindDirectionCompass {
    north, northEast, east, southEast, south, southWest, west, northWest, unknown

> }

Reviewer: can we format these to 80 characters so that developers don't have to scroll horizontally to see all values?

          |-- weather.g.dart
          |-- models.dart
      |-- meta_weather_api.dart
    |-- test/
```

### Using the data models to create the API Client

Let's create our API client in the file `meta_weather_api_client.dart`. Our project structure should now look like this:

```
flutter_weather
|-- lib/
|-- test/
|-- packages/
  |-- meta_weather_api/
    |-- lib/
      |-- src/
        |-- models/
          |-- location.dart
          |-- location.g.dart
          |-- weather.dart
          |-- weather.g.dart
          |-- models.dart
        |-- meta_weather_api_client.dart
      |-- meta_weather_api.dart
    |-- test/
```

We will also need to import the `http` package. In your `packages/meta_weather_api/pubspec.yaml` file, add `http` to your list of dependencies. Your updated file should look like this: 

```yaml
# packages/meta_weather_api/pubspec.yaml (in progress)
name: meta_weather_api
description: A Dart API Client for the MetaWeather API.
version: 1.0.0+1

environment:
  sdk: ">=2.12.0-0 <3.0.0"

dependencies:
  http: ^0.13.0
  json_annotation: ^4.0.0

dev_dependencies:
  coverage: ^0.14.1
  build_runner: ^1.10.0
  json_serializable: ^4.0.0
```

> Makes sure to run `flutter pub get` after saving the file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to run `flutter pub get` after saving the file. 
```

    _baseUrl,
    '/api/location/search',
    <String, String>{'query': query},
  );
  final locationResponse = await _httpClient.get(locationRequest);

  if (locationResponse.statusCode != 200) {
    throw LocationIdRequestFailure();
  }

  final locationJson = jsonDecode(
    locationResponse.body,
  ) as List;

  if (locationJson.isEmpty) {
    throw LocationIdRequestFailure();
  }

  return Location.fromJson(locationJson.first as Map<String, dynamic>);
}
```

Similarly, the getWeather method hits the weather API and throws `WeatherRequestFailiure` errors as applicable. The completed method looks as follows:

```dart
/// Fetches [Weather] for a given [locationId].
Future<Weather> getWeather(int locationId) async {
  final weatherRequest = Uri.https(_baseUrl, '/api/location/$locationId');
  final weatherResponse = await _httpClient.get(weatherRequest);

  if (weatherResponse.statusCode != 200) {
    throw WeatherRequestFailure();
  }

  final weatherJson = jsonDecode(
    weatherResponse.body,
  )['consolidated_weather'] as List;

  if (weatherJson.isEmpty) {
    throw WeatherRequestFailure();
  }

  return Weather.fromJson(weatherJson.first as Map<String, dynamic>);
}
```

> The completed file, put together, looks like this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Put together, the completed file should look like this:
```

      throw LocationIdRequestFailure();
    }

    final locationJson = jsonDecode(
      locationResponse.body,
    ) as List;

    if (locationJson.isEmpty) {
      throw LocationIdRequestFailure();
    }

    return Location.fromJson(locationJson.first as Map<String, dynamic>);
  }

  /// Fetches [Weather] for a given [locationId].
  Future<Weather> getWeather(int locationId) async {
    final weatherRequest = Uri.https(_baseUrl, '/api/location/$locationId');
    final weatherResponse = await _httpClient.get(weatherRequest);

    if (weatherResponse.statusCode != 200) {
      throw WeatherRequestFailure();
    }

    final weatherJson = jsonDecode(
      weatherResponse.body,
    )['consolidated_weather'] as List;

    if (weatherJson.isEmpty) {
      throw WeatherRequestFailure();
    }

    return Weather.fromJson(weatherJson.first as Map<String, dynamic>);
  }
}
```

Lastly, let's wrap up this package by adding our API client to the barrel file.

```dart
// packages/meta_weather_api/lib/meta_weather_api.dart (done)

library meta_weather_api;

export 'src/meta_weather_api_client.dart';
export 'src/models/models.dart';
```

### Unit Testing our Data Layer Models

> First, let's unit test our data models, `location` and `weather`. We should focus on insuring that they can represent our data, translate from and to JSON form, and handle edge cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, let's unit test our data models, `location` and `weather`. We should focus on ensuring that they can represent our data, translate from and to JSON, and handle edge cases.
```

> First, add the Dart testing library to our `pubspec.yaml` and run `flutter pub get`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the Dart testing library to our `pubspec.yaml` and run `flutter pub get`.
```

              .having((w) => w.weatherStateName, 'state', 'Showers')
              .having((w) => w.weatherStateAbbr, 'abbr', WeatherState.showers)
              .having((w) => w.windDirectionCompass, 'wind',
                  WindDirectionCompass.southWest)
              .having((w) => w.created, 'created',
                  DateTime.parse('2020-10-26T00:20:01.840132Z'))
              .having((w) => w.applicableDate, 'applicableDate',
                  DateTime.parse('2020-10-26'))
              .having((w) => w.minTemp, 'minTemp', 7.9399999999999995)
              .having((w) => w.maxTemp, 'maxTemp', 13.239999999999998)
              .having((w) => w.theTemp, 'theTemp', 12.825)
              .having((w) => w.windSpeed, 'windSpeed', 7.876886316914553)
              .having(
                  (w) => w.windDirection, 'windDirection', 246.17046093256732)
              .having((w) => w.airPressure, 'airPressure', 997.0)
              .having((w) => w.humidity, 'humidity', 73)
              .having((w) => w.visibility, 'visibility', 11.037727173307882)
              .having((w) => w.predictability, 'predictability', 73),
        );
      });
    });
  });
}
```

> Finally, let's install the `coverage` package to run our tests with coverage and ensure that our tests pass

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, let's install the `coverage` package to run our tests with coverage and ensure that our tests pass.
```

```yaml
# packages/meta_weather_api/pubspec.yaml (done)
name: meta_weather_api
description: A Dart API Client for the MetaWeather API.
version: 1.0.0+1

environment:
  sdk: ">=2.12.0-0 <3.0.0"

dependencies:
  http: ^0.13.0
  json_annotation: ^4.0.0

dev_dependencies:
  coverage: ^0.14.1
  build_runner: ^1.10.0
  json_serializable: ^4.0.0
  mocktail: ^0.1.0
  test: ^1.16.4
```

```bash
flutter test --coverage
```

## Repository Layer

> The goal of our repository layer is to create a wrapper for our data layer, and facilitate communication with the Bloc layer. In doing this, the rest of our code base depends only on functions exposed by our repository layer, instead of specific data provider implementations. This makes it easier for data providers to be switched out in the long run, and even converted into Flutter plugins/packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The goal of our repository layer is to create a wrapper for our data layer and facilitate communication with the Bloc layer. In doing this, the rest of our code base depends only on functions exposed by our repository layer, instead of specific data provider implementations. This makes it easier to switch out data providers later, or even convert them into individual Flutter plugins/packages.
```

### Creating Our Weather Repository Package

Inside the packages directory, run the following command

```
flutter create --template=package weather_repository
```

Your directory structure should look like this:

```
flutter_weather
|-- lib/
|-- test/
|-- packages/
  |-- meta_weather_api/
  |-- weather_repository
    |-- lib/
    |-- test/
```

> Next, we will be use the same packages as in the `meta_weather_api` package. In addition, we will also use the `meta_weather_api` package which we just created. Update your `pubspec.yaml` to look like the following and run `flutter packages get`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will be use the same packages as in the `meta_weather_api` package. In addition, we will also use the `meta_weather_api` package which we just created. Update your `pubspec.yaml` to look like the following and run `flutter pub get`
```

```yaml
# packages/weather_repository/pubspec.yaml (done)
name: weather_repository
description: A Dart Repository which manages the weather domain.
version: 1.0.0+1
publish_to: none

environment:
  sdk: ">=2.12.0-0 <3.0.0"

dependencies:
  equatable: ^2.0.0
  json_annotation: ^4.0.0
  meta_weather_api:
    path: ../meta_weather_api

dev_dependencies:
  coverage: ^0.14.1
  build_runner: ^1.10.0
  json_serializable: ^4.0.0
  mocktail: ^0.1.0
  test: ^1.16.4
```

### Creating Our Weather Repository Models

> Update your directory structure to look like this. We will be creating a new `weather.dart` models file to contain only data we want to store, and another `models.dart` barrel file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update your directory structure to look like the below. We will create a new `weather.dart` models file to contain only data we want to store, and another `models.dart` barrel file.
```

  |-- weather_repository/
    |-- lib/
      |-- src/
        |-- models/
          |-- models.dart
          |-- weather.dart
    |-- test/
```

This time, our weather model will only store the `location, temperature, condition` properties. We will also continue to annotate our code to allow for serialization and deserialization.

```dart
// packages/weather_repository/lib/src/models/weather.dart (done)
import 'package:equatable/equatable.dart';
import 'package:json_annotation/json_annotation.dart';

part 'weather.g.dart';

enum WeatherCondition {
  clear,
  rainy,
  cloudy,
  snowy,
  unknown,
}

@JsonSerializable()
class Weather extends Equatable {
  const Weather({
    required this.location,
    required this.temperature,
    required this.condition,
  });

  factory Weather.fromJson(Map<String, dynamic> json) =>
      _$WeatherFromJson(json);

  Map<String, dynamic> toJson() => _$WeatherToJson(this);

  final String location;
  final double temperature;
  final WeatherCondition condition;

  @override
  List<Object> get props => [location, temperature, condition];
}
```

```dart
// packages/weather_repository/lib/src/models/models.dart (done)

export 'weather.dart';
```

> As we did in the previous section, run the following command to use `build_runner` to create our auto-generated models and factory methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we did in the previous step, run the following command to use `build_runner` to create our auto-generated models and factory methods.
```

      : _weatherApiClient = weatherApiClient ?? MetaWeatherApiClient();

  final MetaWeatherApiClient _weatherApiClient;

  Future<Weather> getWeather(String city) async {
    final location = await _weatherApiClient.locationSearch(city);
    final woeid = location.woeid;
    final weather = await _weatherApiClient.getWeather(woeid);
    return Weather(
      temperature: weather.theTemp,
      location: location.title,
      condition: weather.weatherStateAbbr.toCondition,
    );
  }
}

extension on WeatherState {
  WeatherCondition get toCondition {
    switch (this) {
      case WeatherState.clear:
        return WeatherCondition.clear;
      case WeatherState.snow:
      case WeatherState.sleet:
      case WeatherState.hail:
        return WeatherCondition.snowy;
      case WeatherState.thunderstorm:
      case WeatherState.heavyRain:
      case WeatherState.lightRain:
      case WeatherState.showers:
        return WeatherCondition.rainy;
      case WeatherState.heavyCloud:
      case WeatherState.lightCloud:
        return WeatherCondition.cloudy;
      default:
        return WeatherCondition.unknown;
    }
  }
}
```

> Lastly, update the barrel file we created previously and we are done. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lastly, update the barrel file we created previously, and we are done with this step!
```

```dart
// packages/weather_repository/lib/weather_repository.dart (done)

library weather_repository;

export 'src/models/models.dart';
export 'src/weather_repository.dart';
```

### Testing Our Weather Repository

> To test our Weather Repository, we will use the [Mocktail](https://github.com/felangel/mocktail) library. Using this library, we will create mocks and insure that our weather repository's `getWeather` method works as it should. This includes testing when the API client fails, and making sure the `Weather` object returned is correct when the API call is successful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test our Weather Repository, we will use the [Mocktail](https://github.com/felangel/mocktail) library. Using this library, we will create mocks and insure that our weather repository's `getWeather` method works as it should. This includes testing when the API client fails, and making sure the returned `Weather` object is correct when the API call is successful.
```

          actual,
          Weather(
            temperature: 42.42,
            location: 'London',
            condition: WeatherCondition.cloudy,
          ),
        );
      });

      test('returns correct weather on success (light cloud)', () async {
        final location = MockLocation();
        final weather = MockWeather();
        when(() => location.woeid).thenReturn(woeid);
        when(() => location.title).thenReturn('London');
        when(() => weather.weatherStateAbbr).thenReturn(
          meta_weather_api.WeatherState.lightCloud,
        );
        when(() => weather.theTemp).thenReturn(42.42);
        when(() => metaWeatherApiClient.locationSearch(any())).thenAnswer(
          (_) async => location,
        );
        when(() => metaWeatherApiClient.getWeather(any())).thenAnswer(
          (_) async => weather,
        );
        final actual = await weatherRepository.getWeather(city);
        expect(
          actual,
          Weather(
            temperature: 42.42,
            location: 'London',
            condition: WeatherCondition.cloudy,
          ),
        );
      });
    });
  });
}
```

## Business Logic Layer: Weather Model

> In this section, we're going to implement our third weather model - this time for the weather feature of our main app. Note that we haven't been implementing the exact same model each time. In the API client package, our weather model contained all the info returned by the API. In the repository client package, our weather model contained only the data we wish to display in our app, and in this weather model, we will bake temperature settings into the weather model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section, we're going to implement our third weather model - this time for the weather feature of our main app. Note that we haven't been implementing the exact same model each time. In the API client package, our weather model contained all the info returned by the API. In the repository client package, our weather model contained only the data we wish to display in our app. In this weather model, we will bake temperature settings into the weather model.
```

> Before we get started, lets update our project level dependencies to import the packages we've created and also the serialization/deserialization dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before we get started, let's update our project-level dependencies to import the packages we've created and also the serialization/deserialization dependencies.
```

```yaml
# pubspec.yaml (in progress)
name: flutter_weather
description: A new Flutter project.
version: 1.0.0+1
publish_to: none

environment:
  sdk: ">=2.12.0-0 <3.0.0"

dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  equatable: ^2.0.0
  json_annotation: ^4.0.0
  weather_repository:
    path: packages/weather_repository

dev_dependencies:
  flutter_test:
    sdk: flutter
  build_runner: ^1.10.0
  json_serializable: ^4.0.0

flutter:
  uses-material-design: true
  assets:
    - assets/
```

> We will be working in the `weather` features app, in our main project library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will be working inside the `weather` features app, in our main project library.
```

```
flutter_weather
|-- lib/
  |-- weather/
    |-- models/
      |-- models.dart
      |-- weather.dart
```

> The goal of our weather model is to keep track of weather data displayed by our app and also to keep track of settings. To keep track of settings (celsius, farenheit), create the temperature model in `weather`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To keep track of settings (celsius, farenheit), create the temperature model in `weather`
```

Reviewer 2: Moved the first sentence up to the top of this section

  });

  factory Weather.fromJson(Map<String, dynamic> json) =>
      _$WeatherFromJson(json);

  factory Weather.fromRepository(weather_repository.Weather weather) {
    return Weather(
      condition: weather.condition,
      lastUpdated: DateTime.now(),
      location: weather.location,
      temperature: Temperature(value: weather.temperature),
    );
  }

  static final empty = Weather(
    condition: WeatherCondition.unknown,
    lastUpdated: DateTime(0),
    temperature: const Temperature(value: 0),
    location: '--',
  );

  final WeatherCondition condition;
  final DateTime lastUpdated;
  final String location;
  final Temperature temperature;

  @override
  List<Object> get props => [condition, lastUpdated, location, temperature];

  Map<String, dynamic> toJson() => _$WeatherToJson(this);

  Weather copyWith({
    WeatherCondition? condition,
    DateTime? lastUpdated,
    String? location,
    Temperature? temperature,
  }) {
    return Weather(
      condition: condition ?? this.condition,
      lastUpdated: lastUpdated ?? this.lastUpdated,
      location: location ?? this.location,
      temperature: temperature ?? this.temperature,
    );
  }
}
```

> Lastly, to wrap this section up, run `build_runner` to create the auto generated file and methods, and also export our models in the barrel file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To wrap this section up, run `build_runner` to create the auto generated file and methods, then export our models in the barrel file
```

```bash
flutter packages pub run build_runner build
```

```dart
// lib/weather/models/models.dart (done)
export 'weather.dart';
```

## Business Logic Layer: Weather and Theme Cubits

> In this tutorial, we will use HydratedCubits for our Bloc layer. HydratedCubits are essentially Cubits that can persist state across sessions when used in conjunction with HydratedStorage. In short, our HydratedCubits will keep track of state and expose methods which can be used to mutate state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, we will use HydratedCubits for our Bloc layer to allow for theming. HydratedCubits are Cubits that can persist state across sessions when used in conjunction with HydratedStorage. In short, our HydratedCubits will keep track of state and expose methods which can be used to mutate state.
```

### Weather State

Add the `cubits` directory within the weather app and create the `weather_cubit.dart` and `weather_state.dart` files. Your project structure should look like this:

```
flutter_weather
|-- lib/
  |-- weather/
    |-- cubit/
      |-- weather_cubit.dart
      |-- weather_state.dart
```

There are 4 states our weather app can be in: `initial` (before anything loads), `loading` (during the API call), `success` (if our API call is successful), ``failiure (if our API call is unsuccessful). 

We will keep track of this using the enum `WeatherStatus`

```dart
enum WeatherStatus { initial, loading, success, failure }

extension WeatherStatusX on WeatherStatus {
  bool get isInitial => this == WeatherStatus.initial;
  bool get isLoading => this == WeatherStatus.loading;
  bool get isSuccess => this == WeatherStatus.success;
  bool get isFailure => this == WeatherStatus.failure;
}
```

> We will also need to keep track of what units (farenheit or celsius) our app is in. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will also need to keep track of what units (Fahrenheit or Celsius) our app is using. 
```

extension WeatherStatusX on WeatherStatus {
  bool get isInitial => this == WeatherStatus.initial;
  bool get isLoading => this == WeatherStatus.loading;
  bool get isSuccess => this == WeatherStatus.success;
  bool get isFailure => this == WeatherStatus.failure;
}

@JsonSerializable()
class WeatherState extends Equatable {
  WeatherState({
    this.status = WeatherStatus.initial,
    this.temperatureUnits = TemperatureUnits.celsius,
    Weather? weather,
  }) : weather = weather ?? Weather.empty;

  factory WeatherState.fromJson(Map<String, dynamic> json) =>
      _$WeatherStateFromJson(json);

  final WeatherStatus status;
  final Weather weather;
  final TemperatureUnits temperatureUnits;

  WeatherState copyWith({
    WeatherStatus? status,
    TemperatureUnits? temperatureUnits,
    Weather? weather,
  }) {
    return WeatherState(
      status: status ?? this.status,
      temperatureUnits: temperatureUnits ?? this.temperatureUnits,
      weather: weather ?? this.weather,
    );
  }

  Map<String, dynamic> toJson() => _$WeatherStateToJson(this);

  @override
  List<Object?> get props => [status, temperatureUnits, weather];
}
```

### Weather Cubits

> Finally! It's time to put together our Weather Cubit. Our Weather Cubit will expose the following methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's time to put together our Weather Cubit. Our Weather Cubit will expose the following methods:
```

    } on Exception {
      emit(state);
    }
  }

  void toggleUnits() {
    final units = state.temperatureUnits.isFahrenheit
        ? TemperatureUnits.celsius
        : TemperatureUnits.fahrenheit;

    if (!state.status.isSuccess) {
      emit(state.copyWith(temperatureUnits: units));
      return;
    }

    final weather = state.weather;
    if (weather != Weather.empty) {
      final temperature = weather.temperature;
      final value = units.isCelsius
          ? temperature.value.toCelsius()
          : temperature.value.toFahrenheit();
      emit(
        state.copyWith(
          temperatureUnits: units,
          weather: weather.copyWith(temperature: Temperature(value: value)),
        ),
      );
    }
  }

  @override
  WeatherState fromJson(Map<String, dynamic> json) =>
      WeatherState.fromJson(json);

  @override
  Map<String, dynamic> toJson(WeatherState state) => state.toJson();
}

extension on double {
  double toFahrenheit() => ((this * 9 / 5) + 32);
  double toCelsius() => ((this - 32) * 5 / 9);
}
```

Again, we will need to create our auto generated file using `build_runner`

```
flutter packages pub run build_runner build
```

### Theme Cubits

> Next, let's put together the HydratedCubit we will use to keep track of the theme of our app. The goal is to have the theme changed based on the current weather information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, let's put together the HydratedCubit we will use to keep track of the theme of our app. The goal is to have the theme change based on the current weather information.
```

```
flutter_weather
|-- lib/
  |-- weather/
    |-- theme/
      |-- cubit/
        |-- theme_cubit.dart
```

> We will expose an `updateTheme(Weather? weather)` method, which will update the theme cubit depending on the weather condition

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will expose an `updateTheme(Weather? weather)` method, which will update the Theme Cubit depending on the weather condition
```

  void updateTheme(Weather? weather) {
    if (weather != null) emit(weather.toColor);
  }

  @override
  Color fromJson(Map<String, dynamic> json) {
    return Color(int.parse(json['color'] as String));
  }

  @override
  Map<String, dynamic> toJson(Color state) {
    return <String, String>{'color': '${state.value}'};
  }
}

extension on Weather {
  Color get toColor {
    switch (condition) {
      case WeatherCondition.clear:
        return Colors.orangeAccent;
      case WeatherCondition.snowy:
        return Colors.lightBlueAccent;
      case WeatherCondition.cloudy:
        return Colors.blueGrey;
      case WeatherCondition.rainy:
        return Colors.indigoAccent;
      case WeatherCondition.unknown:
      default:
        return ThemeCubit.defaultColor;
    }
  }
}

```

### Testing: Cubit Tests

There are a few things we should test

- If our weather states return correct `WeatherStatusX` values. [Here](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/blob/master/examples/flutter_weather/test/weather/cubit/weather_state_test.dart) is a completed test file
- If our HydratedCubits respond to events properly and is able to convert fromJson and toJson

> In addition to using `Mocktail` for mocking and the standard testing library, it is also reccomended to use [bloc_test](https://pub.dev/packages/bloc_test) library. `bloc_test` allows us to easily prepare our blocs for testing, handle state changes, and check results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to using `Mocktail` for mocking and the standard testing library, it is also reccomended to use the [bloc_test](https://pub.dev/packages/bloc_test) library. `bloc_test` allows us to easily prepare our blocs for testing, handle state changes, and check results.
```

[Here](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/blob/master/examples/flutter_weather/test/weather/cubit/weather_cubit_test.dart) is an example weather cubit testing file and [here](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/blob/master/examples/flutter_weather/test/theme/cubit/theme_cubit_test.dart) is an example theme cubit testing file

## Presentation Layer: Weather Page, Settings Page, Search Page

### Weather Page

> With the core logic of our app put together, it's time to put together the UI! We will start with the weather page which uses `dependency injection` in order to provide cubits to widgets. This is accomplished using `BlocProvider` and `BlocConsumer`. These objects essentially inject our Cubits whenever widgets are (re)rendered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the core logic of our app put together, it's time to put together the UI! We will start with the weather page which uses `dependency injection` in order to provide cubits to widgets. This is accomplished using `BlocProvider` and `BlocConsumer`. These objects inject our Cubits whenever widgets are (re)rendered.
```

            if (state.status.isSuccess) {
              context.read<ThemeCubit>().updateTheme(state.weather);
            }
          },
          builder: (context, state) {
            switch (state.status) {
              case WeatherStatus.initial:
                return const WeatherEmpty();
              case WeatherStatus.loading:
                return const WeatherLoading();
              case WeatherStatus.success:
                return WeatherPopulated(
                  weather: state.weather,
                  units: state.temperatureUnits,
                  onRefresh: () {
                    return context.read<WeatherCubit>().refreshWeather();
                  },
                );
              case WeatherStatus.failure:
              default:
                return const WeatherError();
            }
          },
        ),
      ),
      floatingActionButton: FloatingActionButton(
        child: const Icon(Icons.search),
        onPressed: () async {
          final city = await Navigator.of(context).push(SearchPage.route());
          unawaited(context.read<WeatherCubit>().fetchWeather(city));
        },
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

> This page depends on `SettingsPage, SearchPage` widgets, which we will create next

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page depends on `SettingsPage, SearchPage` widgets, which we will create next.
```

  }

  @override
  State<SearchPage> createState() => _SearchPageState();
}

class _SearchPageState extends State<SearchPage> {
  final TextEditingController _textController = TextEditingController();

  String get _text => _textController.text;

  @override
  void dispose() {
    _textController.dispose();
    super.dispose();
  }

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
      appBar: AppBar(title: const Text('City Search')),
      body: Row(
        children: [
          Expanded(
            child: Padding(
              padding: const EdgeInsets.all(8.0),
              child: TextField(
                controller: _textController,
                decoration: const InputDecoration(
                  labelText: 'City',
                  hintText: 'Chicago',
                ),
              ),
            ),
          ),
          IconButton(
            key: const Key('searchPage_search_iconButton'),
            icon: const Icon(Icons.search),
            onPressed: () => Navigator.of(context).pop(_text),
          )
        ],
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

## Presentation Layer: Individual Weather Widgets

> We will next create the UI for our app. Each individual widget corresponds to a particular state our Cubits can be in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we will create the UI for our app. Each individual widget corresponds to a particular state that our Cubits can be in.
```

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    final theme = Theme.of(context);
    return Column(
      mainAxisSize: MainAxisSize.min,
      crossAxisAlignment: CrossAxisAlignment.center,
      children: [
        const Text('🙈', style: TextStyle(fontSize: 64)),
        Text(
          'Something went wrong!',
          style: theme.textTheme.headline5,
        ),
      ],
    );
  }
}
```

### WeatherLoading

```dart
// lib/weather/widgets/weather_loading.dart (done)

import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

class WeatherLoading extends StatelessWidget {
  const WeatherLoading({Key? key}) : super(key: key);

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    final theme = Theme.of(context);
    return Column(
      mainAxisSize: MainAxisSize.min,
      crossAxisAlignment: CrossAxisAlignment.center,
      children: [
        const Text('⛅', style: TextStyle(fontSize: 64)),
        Text(
          'Loading Weather',
          style: theme.textTheme.headline5,
        ),
        const Padding(
          padding: EdgeInsets.all(16.0),
          child: CircularProgressIndicator(),
        ),
      ],
    );
  }
}
```

### WeatherPopulated

> Next, lets create the UI for when a city has actually been queried for.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, let's create the UI for when we query a city.
```

    return Container(
      decoration: BoxDecoration(
        gradient: LinearGradient(
          begin: Alignment.topCenter,
          end: Alignment.bottomCenter,
          stops: [0.25, 0.75, 0.90, 1.0],
          colors: [
            color,
            color.brighten(10),
            color.brighten(33),
            color.brighten(50),
          ],
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}

extension on Color {
  Color brighten([int percent = 10]) {
    assert(1 <= percent && percent <= 100);
    final p = percent / 100;
    return Color.fromARGB(
      alpha,
      red + ((255 - red) * p).round(),
      green + ((255 - green) * p).round(),
      blue + ((255 - blue) * p).round(),
    );
  }
}

extension on Weather {
  String formattedTemperature(TemperatureUnits units) {
    return '''${temperature.value.toStringAsPrecision(2)}°${units.isCelsius ? 'C' : 'F'}''';
  }
}
```

Lastly, let's add everything to a barrel file to clean up our imports.

```dart
// lib/weather/widgets/widgets.dart (done)

export 'weather_empty.dart';
export 'weather_error.dart';
export 'weather_loading.dart';
export 'weather_populated.dart';
```

## Presentation Layer: Views

> Let's glue the rest of our app together!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's put the rest of our app together!
```

class WeatherApp extends StatelessWidget {
  const WeatherApp({Key? key, required WeatherRepository weatherRepository})
      : _weatherRepository = weatherRepository,
        super(key: key);

  final WeatherRepository _weatherRepository;

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return RepositoryProvider.value(
      value: _weatherRepository,
      child: BlocProvider(
        create: (_) => ThemeCubit(),
        child: WeatherAppView(),
      ),
    );
  }
}

class WeatherAppView extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    final textTheme = Theme.of(context).textTheme;
    return BlocBuilder<ThemeCubit, Color>(
      builder: (context, color) {
        return MaterialApp(
          theme: ThemeData(
            primaryColor: color,
            textTheme: GoogleFonts.rajdhaniTextTheme(),
            appBarTheme: AppBarTheme(
              textTheme: GoogleFonts.rajdhaniTextTheme(textTheme).apply(
                bodyColor: Colors.white,
              ),
            ),
          ),
          home: WeatherPage(),
        );
      },
    );
  }
}
```

## Testing Our Widgets and Views

> In order to feel comfortable about our testing coverage, we should also test the widgets and view pages we have created. Again, we also reccomend using the `bloc_test` library for this. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to feel confident about our testing coverage, we should also test the widgets and view pages we have created. Again, we recommend using the `bloc_test` library for this. 
```

The `bloc_test` library provides `MockBlocs` and `MockCubits` which make it easy to test UI based on particular states and events.

[Here](https://github.com/felangel/bloc/tree/master/examples/flutter_weather/test) is an example test suite which includes widget tests, cubit tests, and view tests.

> ## Putting it all together. Visually testing functionality

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Putting it all together!
```
